Define and link back to property types (#9209)
trinodb/trino: docs/src/main/sphinx/admin/properties.rst

    Logging <properties-logging>
    Web UI <properties-web-interface>
    Regular expression function <properties-regexp-function>

> Property value types

Reviewer: nit: for this entire entire section:

`Properties of a ``xxxxx`` type` -> `Properties of type ``xxxxxx`` ` reads better IMO. WDYT?

Reviewer: Do we also want to mention that properties have validations defined on them - so any "ok" values that are out of range for a given property will read to validation errors?

Reviewer 2: yes .. we should add info about min max and such

Author: Reworded, and added note about validation errors.

--------------------

> Configuration properties in Trino take values of different types, some standard

Reviewer 3: Minor tweaks/potential reword:

> "Trino configuration properties support different value types, some standard and some non-standard. Other limitations of support values exist on a per-property basis."

> and some non-standard. Supported values may be further limited on a per-property

Reviewer 2: there is no standard vs non standard ... 

they are all strings in .properties files .. and Trino supports the following parsing to support different data types

Reviewer 4: I agree with @mosabua . Saying "non-standard" doesn't add much value, but suggests something is wrong and could be improved.

Author: Reworded a bit.

> basis.

Reviewer: Are we talking about Duration as being non-standard? If so that's true (only because the actual standard for durations is not human friendly - https://www.digi.com/resources/documentation/digidocs/90001437-13/reference/r_iso_8601_duration_format.htm) but I don't think this language contributes anything meaningful to the reader.

.. _prop-type-boolean:

``boolean``
^^^^^^^^^^^

> Properties of a ``boolean`` type support two values, ``true`` or ``false``

Reviewer 3: Minor reword for clarity "The properties of a ``boolean`` type supports two lowercase values, ``true`` or ``false``."

Reviewer 2: so must be lowercase?

Author: Per comment above, it's case-insensitive.

> Properties of a ``boolean`` type support two values, ``true`` or ``false``
> in lowercase.

Reviewer: nit: using words like MUST, SHOULD, COULD help enforce things IMO. WDYT?

```suggestion
Properties of a ``boolean`` type support two values, ``true`` or ``false``.
The values must be lowercase.
```

Reviewer 2: I like that

Reviewer 4: Actually they don't have to be lowercase.
https://github.com/airlift/airlift/blob/3546f4b12884828372d30a8ae821327ad87441e8/configuration/src/main/java/io/airlift/configuration/ConfigurationFactory.java#L573-L577

Author: Added "must" and similar where appropriate. Removed the lowercase requirement.

.. _prop-type-data-size:

``data size``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Properties of a ``data size`` type support values describing an amount of

Reviewer 3: I'd try "The properties of a... values that describe an..."

> data, measured in byte-based units. For example, the value ``6GB`` describes
> six gigabytes.

Reviewer 4: expand example to clarify  units 
```suggestion
data, measured in byte-based units. For example, the value ``6GB`` describes
six gigabytes, which is 6 * 1024 * 1024 * 1024 = 6442450944 bytes.
```

The ``data size`` type supports the following units:

* ``B``: Bytes
* ``kB``: Kilobytes
* ``MB``: Megabytes
* ``GB``: Gigabytes
* ``TB``: Terabytes
* ``PB``: Petabytes

> Some ``data size`` properties also support ``unlimited`` as a value.

Reviewer: Which ones are these - I'd like to take a look to introduce some consistency.

Reviewer 2: Is it truly Megabytes  .. like 1 Megabyte is 1, 024 Kilobytes .. or is it MByte .. like 1000 KByte or 1000000 Byte
-- | --

Reviewer 4: @mosabua good point

here:
1KB is 1024 bytes
1MB is 1024 KB

@hashhar "unlimited" should NOT be considered part of data type.

Author: The ``http-server.log.max-size`` property (in properties-logging.rst) which is a data size type has a default value of "unlimited". That one exception is reason enough to document.

Author: Removed the note about ``unlimited`` from the data-size definition, instead making a note of it in the one property that seems to use it.

.. _prop-type-double:

``double``
^^^^^^^^^^

> Properties of a ``double`` type support numerical values, including decimals.

Reviewer 3: "The properties..."

Reviewer 2: need examples  ... also 1.6 or 1,6 ...

.. _prop-type-duration:

``duration``
^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Properties of a ``duration`` type support values describing an amount of time.

Reviewer 3: Again I'd start with "The properties of... support values that describe..."

Reviewer 4: worth noting that there are no negative durations?

For example, the value ``7m`` describes seven minutes.

> The ``duration`` type supports the following units:

Reviewer 2: needs examples .. also explain if you can do something like 2h30m 

also what about months and years?

Author: Months and years are not defined in the Airlift class. Unsure if we support composite durations like that, @hashhar @findepi ?

Author: Also,  how do we take values of 0 duration? Just ``0``, ``0s``, etc

Reviewer: Duration only has the units - nanos (ns), micros (us), millis (ms), seconds (s), minutes (m), hours (h) and days (d).

zero-durations can be any valid duration with the value 0. So each of these mean the same thing `0ms`, `0s`, `0m`, `0d` etc.

Reviewer: Please mention a duration must have a single unit - ie. no composition. Looks good otherwise.

Reviewer: > duration types support the syntax of a number followed by a unit

Adding this would alleviate my concerns. Composition is a natural assumption/question.
Something like:

```
The properties of type ``duration`` support values describing an
amount of time and take the form of a number followed by a unit.
```

Reviewer: Generally agreed about not documenting everything we DON'T support - that's kinda impossible and too verbose.
In this case I think it's a valid assumption that a lot of people would make.

Author: Sounds good - made the appropriate syntax more explicit.

* ``ns``: Nanoseconds
* ``us``: Microseconds

> * ``ms``: milliseconds

Reviewer 3: Needs capitalization to match the rest of the list.

* ``s``: Seconds
* ``m``: Minutes
* ``h``: Hours
* ``d``: Days

.. _prop-type-integer:

``integer``
^^^^^^^^^^^

> Properties of an ``integer`` type support whole numerical values.

Reviewer: `numeric values`?

> Properties of an ``integer`` type support whole numerical values.

Reviewer 3: I feel as though the description should start with "The properties of..."

> Properties of an ``integer`` type support whole numerical values.

Reviewer 2: examples, what about negative values, supports min and max...

.. _prop-type-string:

``string``
^^^^^^^^^^

> Properties of a ``string`` type support values consisting of a sequence of

Reviewer 3: I'd try something more similar to:

> The properties of a ``string`` type support values that consist of a sequence of characters.

> Properties of a ``string`` type support values consisting of a sequence of

Reviewer 2: what about lenght restrictions or character sets?

Reviewer 4: Properties of a ``string`` type are actually very rare. 
Do you have examples of free-form string-valued properties?

Reviewer 4: Many properties are actually "enums".
I think it's so predominant we should introduce a separate type for them and leave "string" for really free-form string inputs.

Example of string property: `hive.temporary-staging-directory-path`
Example of enum property: `hive.storage-format` (default hive storage format, one of io.trino.plugin.hive.HiveStorageFormat enum)

Or, we continue to call all of them "string", and let users figure out. I am fine with that, but then we shouldn't make "string" sound like "free-form", as "values consisting of a sequence of characters" sounds to me

Reviewer 2: We can explain it more but cant really easily change the docs to enum since string is used in a lot of places in the actual user facing docs. Just look at the diff for this PR where the text is introduced. Sure, they are often enums and we should explain that but they can also be freeform text.  We should explain that and have the valid values documented where there are enums.

Author: Without taking action on strings vs. enums, I reworded this ``string`` section a bit to try and not imply that it's free-form.

> characters. Supported values are defined on a property-by-property basis, refer

Reviewer: `Supported` -> `Valid`?

> to the documentation for a given ``string`` type property for its supported

Reviewer 3: Given seems strange in this context, maybe "specific" instead?

    Web UI <properties-web-interface>
    Regular expression function <properties-regexp-function>

Property value types
--------------------

Trino configuration properties support different value types with their own
allowed values and syntax. Additional limitations apply on a per-property basis,
and disallowed values result in a validation error.

.. _prop-type-boolean:

``boolean``
^^^^^^^^^^^

The properties of type ``boolean`` support two values, ``true`` or ``false``.

.. _prop-type-data-size:

``data size``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The properties of type ``data size`` support values that describe an amount of
data, measured in byte-based units. These units are incremented in multiples of
1024, so one megabyte is 1024 kilobytes, one kilobyte is 1024 bytes, and so on.
For example, the value ``6GB`` describes six gigabytes, which is
(6 * 1024 * 1024 * 1024) = 6442450944 bytes.

The ``data size`` type supports the following units:

* ``B``: Bytes
* ``kB``: Kilobytes
* ``MB``: Megabytes
* ``GB``: Gigabytes
* ``TB``: Terabytes
* ``PB``: Petabytes

.. _prop-type-double:

``double``
^^^^^^^^^^

The properties of type ``double`` support numerical values including decimals,

> such as ``1.6``.

Reviewer 2: are negative values allowed?

Reviewer: Yes. (Unless prevented by validation).

.. _prop-type-duration:

``duration``
^^^^^^^^^^^^

The properties of type ``duration`` support values describing an
amount of time. For example, the value ``7m`` describes seven minutes.
``duration`` type values must be non-negative.

The ``duration`` type supports the following units:

* ``ns``: Nanoseconds
* ``us``: Microseconds
* ``ms``: Milliseconds
* ``s``: Seconds
* ``m``: Minutes
* ``h``: Hours
* ``d``: Days

A duration of ``0`` is treated as zero regardless of the unit that follows.

> For example, ``0s`` and ``0m`` both mean the same thing.

Reviewer 2: Negative duration possible?

Reviewer: No.

Author: See my comment on composite ``duration`` values above, re: us not documenting what we don't support

.. _prop-type-integer:

``integer``
^^^^^^^^^^^

The properties of type ``integer`` support whole numeric values, such as ``5``
and ``1000``. Negative values are supported as well, for example ``-7``.
``integer`` type values must be whole numbers, decimal values such as ``2.5``
are not supported.

Some ``integer`` type properties enforce their own minimum and maximum values.

> 

Reviewer 2: Do we need to mention a max in case it is not specified?

Reviewer: Do you mean updating existing proeprties docs to mention max and min allowed values?

.. _prop-type-string:

``string``
^^^^^^^^^^

The properties of type ``string`` support a set of values that consist of a
sequence of characters. Allowed values are defined on a property-by-property

> basis, refer to the specific property for its supported and default values.

Reviewer 2: any length restriction?

Reviewer 2: multiline string possible? I think not but..

Reviewer: It's a properties file - as long as your escape the value properly multiline strings will also be accepted (unless the validation for a property prevents it).
No length restrictions AFAIK.
